feat: added notifications guide (#1379)
tauri-apps/tauri-docs: src/content/docs/2/recipe/notifications.mdx

---
title: Notifications
---

import { Tabs, TabItem } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

> In this recipe we'll take a look at sending a native notification to your user. We'll do this by using the official notification plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this recipe we'll take a look at sending a native notification to your user. We'll do this by using [`tauri-plugin-notification`](https://github.com/tauri-apps/plugins-workspace/tree/v2/plugins/notification).
```

Where should we link to? I know there's also the read-only mirror repos but I think it's better to reference this one? Might chat back and forth on Discord on this and see what we come up with.

Author: Well for now your suggestion of using v2 is the only one that really works. I'm not sure if it's a very permanent link though, we'll have to ask maybeee @lucasfernog for input on this, if the link is permanent enough for use to use and if the read-only mirror is more appropriate

Reviewer: I sort of hate that they're all spread out across a bunch of repos, but I know there was a long discussion around this and sure it's like that for a good reason, so don't want to beat a dead horse. 

The inconsistency between the core repo's v2 branch and the plugin workspace is something that does drive me a bit crazy (v1, v2, dev, latest, next, 1.x, release, etc.), especially when we're having to hard-code URLs in the docs that could/will change.

So if that's something the dev team would be open to doing now to make it consistent I'd really appreciate it before we write a ton of docs.

## Setup

First you have to install the notification plugin in your backend.

> <Tabs>

Reviewer: Curious: What does the `tauri plugin add` CLI do? Because if it doesn't do all of this for you it should. If it does I'd have an "automatic" tab and then a "Manual" tab on this page to make sure we cover both strategies.

Author: It 1. adds cargo dependencies, 2. adds npm dependencies, 3. prints to the terminal what code you need to add to lib.rs or main.rs in order to initialize it

So you could run `tauri plugin add`, but only for specific official plugins, and seeing as it doesn't take care of the Rust part I'd say it's pretty much non-optional to have the `lib.rs` tab visible both in automatic mode and manual mode

I'll see what it looks like using nested tabs. I do think we need both automatic and manual at least.

Reviewer: I think we should look at automating those changes to `lib.rs` or `main.rs` with this command (as well as the plugin migration commands). Anything we can do to automate these things is less of a problem area for people to have issues with (and ask support for).

Plus, for people who aren't comfortable with Rust we really should make that "just work" for them to improve the DX and let them be content in happy JS land.

Let me know if I should open an issue on this upstream.

Author: My perception of time is warped, can't believe Github is telling me it has been 5 days ._.

I think this is indeed an upstream issue, we should still advertise it, but it does have some room for improvement

    <TabItem label="Cargo.toml">
    ```toml
    [dependencies]
    tauri-plugin-notification = "2.0.0-alpha"
    ```
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem label="lib.rs">
    ```rust
    #[cfg_attr(mobile, tauri::mobile_entry_point)]
    pub fn run() {
        tauri::Builder::default()
            // Initialize the plugin
            .plugin(tauri_plugin_notification::init())
            .run(tauri::generate_context!())
            .expect("error while running tauri application");
    }
    ```
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Usage

Once you're done with the general setup you're free to use the notification plugin in either your frontend or straight from the backend.

> ### Frontend

Reviewer: I think I like the phrasing of "frontend" and "backend" and that distinction. Could you do a quick write-up (maybe add it to the CONTRIBUTING guide in this PR) that explains what we mean by that to make it easy to any contributors?

Author: Thanks :) I'll try to write something about it

Reviewer: I can also see this would be a very good place to write a concept of "Frontend vs. Backend" and link to it. Maybe we could add a `TODO:` here and slot that into here in the future?

Author: Sounds good to me :)

Install the `@tauri-apps/plugin-notification` package using your favorite package manager.

> <Tabs>

Reviewer: Alright, another one for the discussion points, but how the heck do we not put ourselves in a position of needed to write every single framework under the sun? I want like one single thing we every "cover". I have a feeling this could be a looooong discussion but think we should have that ASAP. Maybe another on for Discord.

Author: We can talk on Discord aobut it certainly, but to put my idea somewhere:

The Vanilla one is the cover all version that we always have. Adding more frameworks is optional. I don't even think we should say "these are the X frameworks we support and have available everywhere", if there's an example, there's an example, if there's not, there's not. We get rid of the concept of a list of frameworks we support, we only support vanilla js and have examples for that *always*, but other frameworks might be in there if someone has contributed one. This also plays into the whole community contributing part because you're never going to get rid of people wanting their framework to be represented on the site, so I say let them, we only officially add vanilla js, all others are up to us if we feel like making, and will merge PR's for if the community adds.

That's how I'd do it anyway probably. I understand the tab list can get really long though ofc, but the recipes are explicitly intended to be copy-paste friendly (which is another thing I really want us to add, a copy button to codeblocks).

Reviewer: I agree with this. I think _where_ they put those contributions we can have a think through. I want to make a "Community Resources" component that people can PR links out to their blogs/sites/GH repos/etc. to expand on that topic.

What we actually allow to be contributed to our docs we may need to be more mindful of because a) we're sort of expected to be "experts" if it's in the docs and b) it's not sustainable to cover every single framework.

An option would be to have a page on "common patterns" (reactivity for example) and we could cover that on a framework-by-framework basis and only touch on the Tauri-specific things. Very similar to the idea I think @FabianLars suggested on an FAQ of sorts for frameworks, rather than an all-encompassing guide.
